so we try to one of the drivers that
created this change of awareness because
no one really does that with without
feeling guilt even if you did throw
things out the window with disregard
factor some interesting scenes and
madmen which of course takes place in
the sixties you just see them doing
things what did we do that people walk
into an elevator smoking a cigarette did
we do that they finished a picnic and
they toss everything on the ground
did we do that so why did all this
change what happened in the late sixties
and go to 1968 the most turbulent year
of a turbulent decade assassinations the
Tet Offensive the anti-war movement and
in that year
this photo was published
yes earthrise Apollo 8 they went to the
moon orbited a dozen 15 times and then
came back snapped this picture this was
published in 1968 and we see earth as
nature intended us to view it like with
oceans and land and clouds we go to the
moon to explore the moon and we discover
earth for the first time and I looked at
what happened after this photo was taken
in the four years that we were going to
the moon 68 69 70 71 and in 272 five
years excuse me
end of 68 in 272 that's when all this
happened when was the environmental
protection agency founded seventeen
nineteen seventy okay when was first
founded seventeen nineteen seventy when
we were going to the moon that we had
other issues in 1970 right
assassinations and and unrest on college
campuses and all the sudden people
started thinking about earth earth right
1972 the catalytic converter is
introduced that related gases banned DDT
is banned 1973 around all these early
years of the decade the comprehensive
Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act always
in that . so I'm thinking we go to space
as well
we go into space this is one of the
really cool thing about that image it
was internet you know how the NASA
missions are so scripted they you know
they played out yeah that was
unanticipated and when you listen to the
the dialogue that took place it was hate
get the camera quick
no one had actually said hey we're gonna
come around the back side of the Moon
and see there that even think and I
think that the idea that that that that
appreciation that the narrative power of
that actually was more important than
the mission part of of it